# Local Development Setup
To use this development environment on OSX, you need to have Java, Docker and VirtualBox installed (Boot2docker is optional).

## Cloudbreak Deployer

Simplest way to prepare the working environment is to start Cloudbreak on your local machine is to use the [Cloudbreak Deployer](https://github.com/hortonworks/cloudbreak-deployer).

First you need to create a _sandbox_ directory which will store the necessary configuration files and dependencies of [Cloudbreak Deployer](https://github.com/hortonworks/cloudbreak-deployer). This directory must be created outside of the cloned Cloudbreak git repository:
```
mkdir cbd-local
cd cbd-local
```

Add the following to the file `Profile` there under cbd-local (IPs could be different based on your network/virtualbox setup):
```
export PUBLIC_IP=192.168.99.100
export PRIVATE_IP=192.168.99.100
export CB_LOCAL_DEV_BIND_ADDR=192.168.99.1
export DOCKER_MACHINE=default
export ULU_SUBSCRIBE_TO_NOTIFICATIONS=true
export CB_INSTANCE_UUID=$(uuidgen | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')
export CB_SCHEMA_SCRIPTS_LOCATION=/Users/YOUR_USERNAME/YOUR_PROJECT_DIR/cloudbreak/core/src/main/resources/schema
export UAA_DEFAULT_USER_PW=YOUR_PASSWORD
```

The CB_SCHEMA_SCRIPTS_LOCATION environment variable configures the location of SQL scripts that are in the 'core/src/main/resources/schema' directory in the cloned Cloudbreak git repository. Please note that the full path needs to be configured and env variables like $USER cannot be used. You also have to set a password for your local Cloudbreak in UAA_DEFAULT_USER_PW.

To start the complete Cloudbreak ecosystem on your machine just execute the following sequence of commands:
```
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hortonworks/cloudbreak-deployer/master/install-dev | sh [-s branch] && cbd --version
```
Use the -s branch option for sh here in case you'd like to checkout another branch than master.

```
docker-machine start default
eval $(docker-machine env)

cbd start
cbd logs cloudbreak
```
If everything went well then Cloudbreak will be available on http://192.168.99.100:3000. For more details and config parameters please check the documentation of [Cloudbreak Deployer](https://github.com/hortonworks/cloudbreak-deployer).

The deployer has generated a `certs` directory under `cbd-local` directory which will be needed later on to set up IDEA properly.


```
cbd util local-dev
```

In order to kill Cloudbreak container running in docker/boot2docker and redirect the Cloudbreak related traffic to the Cloudbreak running in IDEA use the followig command:

## IDEA

Configure -> Project Defaults -> Project Structure _> Set SDK to your Java version

Cloudbreak can be imported into IDEA as gradle project. Once it is done, you need to import the proper code formatter by using the __File -> Import Settings...__ menu and selecting the `idea_settings.jar` located in the `config/idea` directory in Cloudbreak git repository.

To launch the Cloudbreak application execute the `com.sequenceiq.cloudbreak.CloudbreakApplication` class with VM options:
```
-XX:MaxPermSize=1024m
-Dcb.cert.dir=FULL_PATH_OF_THE_CERTS_DIR_GENERATED_BY_CBD
-Dcb.client.id=cloudbreak
-Dcb.client.secret=CB_SECRET_GENERATED_BY_CBD
-Dcb.db.port.5432.tcp.addr=192.168.99.100
-Dcb.db.port.5432.tcp.port=5432
-Dcb.identity.server.url=http://192.168.99.100:8089
-Dserver.port=9091
-Dcb.schema.migration.auto=true
```

The `-Dcb.cert.dir=FULL_PATH_OF_THE_CERTS_DIR_GENERATED_BY_CBD` value above needs to be replaced with the full path of `certs` directory generated by Cloudbreak Deployer e.g. `/Users/YOUR_USERNAME/YOUR_PROJECT_DIR/cbd-local`.

The `-Dcb.client.secret=CB_SECRET_GENERATED_BY_CBD` value has to be replaced with the value of UAA_DEFAULT_SECRET from the cdb-local/Profile file.
The databse migration is ran automatically by Cloudbreak, this automated migration could be turn off through the `-Dcb.schema.migration.auto=false` VM option.

## Command line

To run Cloudbreak from command line you have to list the JVM parameters from above for gradle:

```
./gradlew :core:bootRun -PjvmArgs="-Dcb.cert.dir=FULL_PATH_OF_THE_CERTS_DIR_GENERATED_BY_CBD \
-Dcb.client.id=cloudbreak \
-Dcb.client.secret=CB_SECRET_GENERATED_BY_CBD \
-Dcb.db.port.5432.tcp.addr=192.168.99.100 \
-Dcb.db.port.5432.tcp.port=5432 \
-Dcb.identity.server.url=http://192.168.99.100:8089 \
-Dserver.port=9091"
```

## Database development

If schema change is required in Cloudbreak database (cbdb), then the developer needs to write SQL scripts to migrate the database accordingly. In Cloudbreak the schema migration is managed by [MYBATIS Migrations](https://github.com/mybatis/migrations) and the cbd tool provides an easy-to-use wrapper for it. The syntax for using the migration commands is `cbd migrate <database name> <command> [parameters]` e.g. `cbd migrate migrate status`.

Create a SQL template for schema changes:
```
cbd migrate cbdb new "CLOUD-123 schema change for new feature"
```
As as result of the above command an SQL file template is generated under the path specified in `CB_SCHEMA_SCRIPTS_LOCATION` environment variable, which is defined in Profile. The structure of the generated SQL template looks like the following:
```
-- // CLOUD-123 schema change for new feature
-- Migration SQL that makes the change goes here.



-- //@UNDO
-- SQL to undo the change goes here.
```
Once you have implemented your SQLs then you can execute them with:
```
cbd migrate cbdb up
```
If you would like to rollback the last SQL file, then just use the down command:
```
cbd migrate cbdb down
```
On order to check the status of database
```
cbd migrate cbdb status

#Every script that has not been executed will be marked as ...pending... in the output of status command:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
-- MyBatis Migrations - status
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ID             Applied At          Description
================================================================================
20150421140021 2015-07-08 10:04:28 create changelog
20150421150000 2015-07-08 10:04:28 CLOUD-607 create baseline schema
20150507121756 2015-07-08 10:04:28 CLOUD-576 change instancegrouptype hostgroup to core
20151008090632    ...pending...    CLOUD-123 schema change for new feature

------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

## Building

Gradle is used for build and dependency management. Gradle wrapper is added to Cloudbreak git repository, therefore building can be done with:
```
./gradlew clean build
```
